We'd get together, you know, the family, sit and
pool our food, and have some, like, you know,
invite my brother and friends that would invite
Gay Larry, and sometimes they would bring other
students. And when we lived in Red Village, Bert,
my brother, was working the mess hall at Duncan
Hall. Oh. And... He sometimes would invite us to
come and eat there. And then we took the kids to the
band practice. You know, the band would... Where
did it practice in those days? In the drill field.
Okay. Did you all go to midnight yell practice?
Uh-huh. And we were always, like, when the band...
i don't know in the evening they used to march and we
hear the band and we had to look for our kids because
they would run down you know to come down from that
village to on campus to to see the band the uh uh
other uh aggie events did you all go to silver taps
We attended Silver Patch. What was your
impression of Silver Patch? Well, the first time,
it was just tremendous. I mean, I couldn't
believe. Something just came over you. I cannot
describe it. It's something you cannot describe.
And then did you go to Bonfire? Oh, yes. Where was it
held? On the drill field. And made of logs. And all
kinds of scrap and stuff that they put in. And let's
see, and then we talked about football. Did y'all
ever go walking in an afternoon? Oh, yes. Where
would you go? Well, we just went around Vet
Village, or if we were in College View, we'd go
around, you know, the places. Right. Now, Vet
Village, where was it? You know where the
President's House is? Oh, okay. Just across the
street from the stadium. Okay, that's what I, all
right. And that's what was torn down after your
first year? Yeah. Okay, that's what I thought. And
was College View new then? No. Oh, it was just full?
Mm-hmm. Okay. The... So you didn't meet many
people from Bryan. No. It was just around the
campus. Around the campus and what we met at
church. All right. Did you meet any of the campus
leaders' wives? Any of the president's wife or the
dean's wife? No, no. We didn't. I did know Odette
Smith and Fred Smith. I don't know whether you ever
knew them or not. Those were the only ones that we
knew. Okay. Then, let's see. So you're gone one
summer, but then you're back the next summer. And
here, what was a summer in College Station like in
terms of comfort? It was hot. It was hot, but by then
we had two fans we'd put in each bedroom, and we
tried to keep cool as best we could. And
everybody was in the same boat.
I mean, we didn't have air conditioning, and we had
lots of windows. and but you know at the time we just
knew it was hot we had to just bear and do the best we
could what did a hard-working student wife wear
what was considered proper dress for her when she
was in the apartment working in the apartment
working? Well, you didn't wear shorts hardly
because, well, you know, when we first came here,
seldom did you find a woman on campus that first
year. And so when you were in your apartment, out of
we had to dress, I mean, we dressed in skirts and
blouses because you never knew, very seldom did
you see a wife that was very daring that had shorts
on, but we went like this, you know. And then when
you went to the store. Oh, we were dressed. I mean,
we wouldn't dare go to the store in shorts. Not even
in slacks do I remember. Did you all wear hats to
church? Yes. I know when we left here in November,
my brother and Ralph came and packed everything,
and I know Ralph threw away some of my hats. Now when
y'all took things, when you moved things back and
forth from Beeville or San Antonio to here, how did
you move it? We had a little trailer. Oh, okay. A
little trailer. Okay. That we moved things in.
Because I thought renting trucks wasn't very easy
in those days. No. Well, his uncle, no, no, we
didn't rent trailers. Yeah, we rented trailers
one time, but his uncle had a pickup, and we used his
uncle's pickup. And during your years here, you
all were able to pay your bills between the GI Bill
and what you both earned. Yes. And you began to
work. We never got anything on credit. And you
began to work your second year here? Yes. So you
worked for two years. Two years. Two years.
Ralph worked pretty well the... Yeah, from the
end, well, about three months of his life.
Sophomore year, and then his junior and senior,
and then he worked during the summer for Smith
Motor Sales.
Describe how you began to become touched by Aggie
spirit. Aggie feelings? Well, I did have a lot of
feelings as a wife. But I think when you became an
Aggie mom,
you had the same spirit. You wanted to attend
everything. I was in San Antonio, and they had the
A&M Club, and we attended some of the functions. As
a former student, Ralph would get letters from the
Aggie Moms Club to support their barbecue. And I
think, well, I already had it when my brothers were
here, you know, it began to, but I think when Ralph
was here, it was, became more prominent in our
lives that the Agus period was something that you,
was ingrained in you or something, but you cannot
describe it. What builds it? What contributes to
the development of the Holy Spirit? I think
because of the loyalty that's here among the
students. And then it was among the wives that we
were all in the same boat. We all had the same
problems. We had the same joys. And I think that the
band was something that we heard every day because
we lived so close. And then the traditions that
were here. Which traditions? Well, like the
traditions of the bonfire, the traditions of the
Yale practice, the traditions of going to
football games and standing.
The
silver caps? That was something that you couldn't
describe. That was something that really touched
us. And then the tradition of
just being an Aggie, an Aggie wife, it was just
something that Being an Aggie was something that
you were proud of, and being the wife of an Aggie,
you know, it was... Did any of your friends go
through any tragedies that the rest of you helped
them, helped support them through while you were
students?
Well, the only one, and it really wasn't a tragedy,
but, you know, divorce was something that was not
dealt with in our family because we, there was, I
don't think we had any. And our neighbor, the
Daniels, he was a veterinary student, and they,
Chris would come in every morning and have coffee
with me. Now, they were not veterans. They came
from well-to-do families up in the East, and they
were being supported by their family. And they had
three little girls. And Chris was somebody that
she wasn't, I don't know, she just, wasn't a good, I
wouldn't say a good mother because she was, but she
was not a very stable person. And I helped her with
the girls. She'd come in in the morning and have
coffee with me and the little girls would be asleep
and I would have to tell her, you know, you need to go
and feed those little girls. Well they they went to
Fort Worth because he had to go this a mean turn
because of his and then all of a sudden his he was
back with the two little girls
and he was going through a divorce and then we were
all subpoenaed to court And he came, I didn't know
how to talk to him because I didn't, he came to tell
me that Chris was trying to take the girls away from
him. And he had, she had put them in, she had taken
them, when they were in Fort Worth, put them in an
orphan home, ran off with another man, and left
Roger. And so when he came, he was just devastated.
And he came to me and wanted me to help him that he was
a good father, that
I would probably have to go to court and testify
because he had finally found the girls in our room
and gotten them out. And his mother came to stay
with him to keep the girls. And it was such a
traumatic thing when you were subpoenaed to
court.
Because I liked Chris. I knew she wasn't stable,
but I didn't want to have to stand up. And I knew what
Roger was going through, so that was one of the
hardest things that I had to go through when we were
here. It was that. And did other Aggies help? Yes,
well the one, the Bobby upstairs, that lived
upstairs, was subpoenaed to. Now she was picked up
from the back by the sheriff. I wasn't because he
knocked on my door and I looked out the window. As I,
I don't know, one made me look out the window and I
saw the sheriff car and the, and I, He knocked again
and again, and finally he said, I said, who is it?
And he says, I'm the sheriff of Brazos County.
Well, I was about to open the door. And so I said,
well, what do you need? And he said, I need, you
know, to give you this dollar. If you accepted that
dollar, then they could put you in the car and take
you in. Oh, okay. So I said, no, just tell me what I
need to do. So he told me all what I need to do. And
Darnell had a telephone. So I got on the phone. I
went over to Darnell's, and I think I called Guyon
Hall and told Ralph. And Darnell's husband, he
would always study in the afternoon. And he drove
me down to the courthouse. And I was just listening
to everything that was being said, and Bobby was
there, and Bobby said they picked me up at the bank
because she took the dollar.
But we didn't have to testify. The lawyer said
there was enough or whatever evidence, and the
judge awarded the children to Roger. Now, during
that period, What did students, be they single or
married, what were their excesses? Like did any of
your friends in College View, were there many
smokers? Yes.
Helen Darin smoked, chain smoked. Now she was the
only one that smoked. What about the men? Were many
of them smokers? No. I don't remember seeing the
men smokers. And if they smoked, did they smoke
cigarettes or pipes?
I believe there was one student in the Red Village
that smoked cigars. Cigars. But I think his family
could afford to. And was there much beer being
drunk? No. I never heard of anybody getting drunk
or having beer in their home in Bed Village. Of
course, we weren't allowed to. And Whiskey Bridge
had to go west to get whiskey. But I never heard of
any of the people in our little area that would go or
drink. And Ralph said that y'all weren't dancers.
No. So you didn't go to any of the big A&M dances. No.
Do you remember any famous celebrities coming to,
other than Eisenhower, any of the entertainers,
big bands? I can't remember them. We came to
Gynehall to see them.
What was their name? Jan Garber? No.
We saw two of them. Guy Lombardo?
No. Oh, what was his name? I have it in the tip of my
tongue and I can't say it. Were there regular...
Guy and Hall had a... A series of inter... Yeah.
maybe before a football game, and it was usually
the Baylor football game, where they would bring a
big-name band to
give a concert. And it was just before the Baylor
game. Now let's see, were you all here in the fall of
52? Yes. All right, that would have been the
election, Adlai Stevenson and Eisenhower. Yeah.
Do you remember anything happening politically?
No, not much. Nobody got very much involved or
anything? No. Most of the veteran students, well,
they had to do a lot of studying because some of them
had been out of school for so long. And some of them
were taking hard, like, in college view the lord
wallace was a vet student betch was a vet student
louis was a vet student roger across the hall was a
vet student so they spent all their time all
afternoon well they were gone all day till maybe
about nine o'clock at night and about how many
units apartments were there in each In Vet Village
it was two, you know that. But in College View? In
College View there was one, two, three, four,
eight in one building. And so that was usually your
little community. Yes. Now did any of the students
study together much? Well, I don't know, like
Roger did his own, the veterinary students did
their own studying, you know, by themselves. I do,
because Roger studied by himself. Bage studied at
home. Wallace and Lewis and
they would go to the library, I don't know where
they studied, maybe at the, maybe at the, vet
school, because we didn't see them very much. Did
you women ever talk about taking courses in the
summer? No, none of us did. And we could have. We
could have taken summer courses,
but I guess like when we were at Red Village and
Ralph was working, you know, the hours just
didn't, I didn't start taking
courses until I went back, we went back to San
Antonio, then I started on my library of science,
working on. Did y'all ever discuss that women
ought to be allowed to enroll at A&M? No.
We didn't, like we just didn't approve that this
was a
university. And I think maybe some of us said,
well, why isn't everybody in the Corps, you know?
Okay. Let's see. I'm trying to think of other
topics that I may have overlooked.
I guess Ralph told you that his end of his sophomore
year his grandmother died, and then the fall of 52
my brother was killed in a plane crash. He had
gotten his degree just in May.
because let's see y'all didn't go to to any final
review uh and he didn't get any senior boots no uh
but he was telling me about how he got his senior
ring do you remember anything special they all did
when he got his senior ring no i think did he tell you
how My brother paid for it. Yes, yes, yes. He put on
the check loan. Oh, is that right? My brother, the
oldest one, graduated in 39, is very, very frugal.
And he says, now, when you all graduate, I want to
give you all your rings." Well, mine was like $20
and I think Ralph's was $30. And he sent us a check
for $50 and he put on their loan. He could take it out
of his income tax. But I think when we got the rings,
we may have gone out and
And celebrate. I think that's the only thing we
did. And I don't remember, I think we went to, there
were not very many places to go eat. Yeah, where
would you go eat as a special place then? There was
the, you know, the hotel had a restaurant. I don't
remember the name of the hotel. You mean downtown?
Down in Bryan. The LaSalle Hotel? Mm-hmm. But I
know we went someplace, and I can't remember
where, that we went to eat. It may have been a
hamburger place, but I remember doing that. And
we didn't go to final reviews. We did attend final
reviews, but Ralph was never involved. As you look
back, what did A&M do best? For us, well I think A&M
gave us the opportunity to get an education, for
Ralph to get an education. And it did, we made a lot
of friends here that we kept up through the years.
We got closer to the spirit of A&M and the
traditions. We experience
a
closeness. Even though Ralph was not in the Corps,
but the students, we got together. And I think what
A&M really did for us was, help us with a challenge
to try to do better. And we got that from being
close, like Mr. Putty was one of the person that was
instrumental and said, you never give up. Can you
think of anything then or now that you wished A&M
had done that it didn't do? Well, at that time,
Well, like when Ralph was looking for a job, I don't
think, now my pressure was that I don't think they
did enough for him to try to get a job. And that was,
even though we thought it was a great school to get
out and everything, I know he had made a lot of
applications, and he would come and say, you know.
And there wasn't any one, any central job
placement office, was there? No, no. You had to go
to each? Yeah. And you all never had any financial
crises? No. We never, like when I had the surgery,
one of the members of the Baptist Church here had
sold us a little small, I mean a health insurance.
And we weren't paying very much, but we, you know,
it was enough. And so Dr. Lancaster looked at the
policy and he says, that's all I'm gonna charge
you. Whatever the policy pays, whatever it pays
for, because he owned the hospital, he and Dr.
Miller. And whatever the insurance paid, that's
what he got. Oh, how good, how good.
Now let's see, and he went back to his old job. Yes,
at Smith Boater Sales. So A&M had no part in that.
No. And from there he went civil service.
What are the qualities of being an Aggie? I think
really to be a true Aggie, the qualities is being
loyal. To whom? Being loyal to God, to your
country, to the school.
Not thinking of yourself, but of service to
others.
And when did you, you got that first, I guess,
through your brothers. Yes. And then through your
husband, but through your own experience here. In
honesty and truthfulness. Now that has led you,
since 1953, to
be active in a number of different ways. When did
you become active in the Aggie Mothers Clubs? In
1964. 64. Why at that time? Because of Robert's
enrollment at A&M. Ah, okay. So you became a fish,
Aggie mother. Yes, and I went on through. active in
the club and I was president of the San Antonio A&M
Mothers Club in 1974-75. Then I applied for an
officer in the Federation. I went through several
offices and I was president in 83-84.
and became involved in the Aggie Wives Club. San
Antonio is the only wives club. And I went through
the offices and I served as president at 91, 92
of the Aggie Wives Club. I was very involved in San
Antonio when I became a, well I went to teach at
Edgewood, then I became librarian. at Highlands
High School, was there 20 years. But I also served
as president of the San Antonio Business and
Professional Women's Club. So you've been a
joiner of many good clubs. Yeah, we've done, and
like the Aggie Moms give scholarships, the Aggie
Wives give two scholarships. One is a core
scholarship and one is general. And it's $1,000 a
semester for each one. And I just, of course I was
involved in Lady of the Light too with the
scholarship in getting started the women that
went back to school. Yeah, I helped some of them
with scholarships for quite a few years. And so,
but I think that came from where we were here at A&M
that we helped each other. You know we were living
in Vet Village helping each other, College View we
were helping each other. And like I kept up with
Irene Larson, Wallace of course is gone, he's
dead, but his son is one of the county
commissioners in San Antonio. And she lives in San
Antonio. As far as you know, are the Aggie Mothers
Clubs still progressing? Oh yes, very much so.
Yes, we have, in fact we're having a federation
meeting here, 29th, you know we meet, the
federation meets three times a year, in August,
January. in April. I don't know whether you've
ever been to one of our meetings. In the other
years, and if they would ever like me to speak about
this project and what I've learned. Well, I'm
going to take your card because the Aggie wives are
looking for speakers and the Aggie moms are
looking for speakers. Particularly when they
come to the campus, I'd be delighted to chat with
them and to share what the enjoyable information
um i i'm always amused when somebody will ask a dumb
question you know what in the world are the aggie
mothers clubs what do they do and i always tell them
that's one group you don't want as your well you
know mr chair that's how i met mr cherry uh you know
that year they were trying to break the permanent
university fund That's when I first went into the
Federation and all my friends told me, just be
fourth vice president, just apply for that. You
don't do anything because that's legislation.
You don't do anything. Well, I did and I got in.
Eleanor Walters from Austin was president and she
was the one that encouraged me. Well, Lord and
behold, I get a letter from Mr. Cherry saying that
he wants the Mother's Club to help with
legislation that the Permanent University Fund
was... And I thought, what am I going to do? And so I
called him, and he asked me to come up. It was in the
office that was over in the administration
building. And we talked about it.